Gateway SUP integration (#180)
margo/specification: system-design/specification/margo-management-interface/device-capabilities.md

## Route and HTTP Methods

```https
POST /api/v1/clients/{clientId}/capabilities/{deviceId}
PUT /api/v1/clients/{clientId}/capabilities/{deviceId}
DELETE /api/v1/clients/{clientId}/capabilities/{deviceId}
```

### Route Parameters

|Parameter | Type | Required? | Description|
|----------|------|-----------|------------|
| {clientId} | string | Y | The unique identifier of the (device) client registered with the WFM during onboarding. |

> | {deviceId} | string | Y | The unique identifier of the device reporting the capabilities. <br/>It must have the following format: "{id}[/{id}[/{id}...]]". The top-level `id` is required and must include only Unreserved Characters as specified in [RFC3986](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986#section-2.3). The subsequent `id`s are optional, but if present they must include only Unreserved Characters as specified in [RFC3986](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986#section-2.3). <br/>Using multiple ids in the endpoint does not register multiple devices in a single request, but indicates a hierarchy of devices, with a parent/child relationship. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| {deviceId} | string | Y | The unique identifier of the device reporting the capabilities. <br/>It must have the following format: "{id}[/{id}[/{id}...]]". The top-level `id` is required and must include only unreserved characters as specified in [RFC3986](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986#section-2.3). If reporting capabilties for a child device, the subsequent `id`s are required and must include only unreserved characters as specified in [RFC3986](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986#section-2.3). <br/>Using multiple ids in the endpoint does not register multiple devices in a single request, but indicates a hierarchy of devices, with a parent/child relationship. |
```

### Response Codes

| Code | Description |
|------|-------------|
| 201 OK | The device capabilities document was added, or updated, successfully |
| 204 No Content | The device capabilities document was deleted successfully. |
| 400 Bad Request | Missing or invalid content-digest header. Ensure the SHA256 hash of the base64-encoded payload is included. |
| 401 Unauthorized | Signature verification failed. Ensure you are signing with the correct X.509 private key.  |
| 403 Forbidden | Client certificate is not trusted or has been revoked. |

> | 404 Not Found | POST, PUT:  No client with the given `clientID` was found. <br/> DELETE: No client with the given `clientID` was found or no device with the given `deviceId` was found for the client. |

Reviewer: Should 404 occur if the device capabilities for the gateway haven't been reported yet? Or is this ok?

Reviewer: Just to clarify, for the see-thru gateway, is there any expectation that the device capabilities for the gateway would need to be provided before the device capabilities for the child devices?

Reviewer: @julienduquesnay-se just following up on these remaining comments

Author: While I was writing the SUP I was going with the assumption that the see-thru gateway would advertise itself before advertising for child devices. This is how the examples were written, but it was not explicitly stated. While a WFM could infer the existence of the gateway from a child device capability reporting I think it is cleaner to require the gateway to advertise first (it gives a heads up to the WFM that multiple devices will be behind the same client id). I will add that a 404 error will be returned by the WFM if child device capabilities are reported before the gateway capabilities.

| Field       | Type            | Required?       | Description     |
|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------|

> | id     | string    | Y    | Unique deviceID assigned to the device via the Device Owner. It must include only Unreserved Characters as specified in [RFC3986](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986#section-2.3) plus the path separator (i.e. '/'). In case of a device behind a gateway, the id field takes the form of a path with the id of the parent gateway, the id of the child device, and the ids of any intermediate devices, i.e., "{gatewayId}/[{intermediateDeviceId/.../]{deviceId}". |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| id     | string    | Y    | Unique deviceID assigned to the device via the Device Owner. It must include only unreserved characters as specified in [RFC3986](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986#section-2.3) plus the path separator (i.e. '/'). In case of a device behind a gateway, the id field takes the form of a path with the id of the parent gateway, the id of the child device, and the ids of any intermediate devices, i.e., "{gatewayId}/[{intermediateDeviceId/.../]{deviceId}". |
```

        }
    }
}
```

## Gateways considerations

> ### Opaque gateways

Reviewer: same here, should we link to something that explains what "opaqure" and "see-thru" gateways means?

Author: Added link to the gateways page in the concepts section

Reviewer: Same comment as above. The link was added, but no PR in the general website repo yet.

Opaque gateways MUST report the combined capabilities of all the devices they connect to the WFM.

> Example: An opaque gateway has two child-devices. Each child-device has an ARM64 processor with 2 cores, 5 GB of memory, 32 GB of storage, and 1 ethernet interface. The gateway will report capabilities of 2 CPUs (arm64) with 2 cores each, 10 GB of memory, 64 GB of storage, and 2 ethernet interfaces. In addition since the gateway can deploy compose applications on its child-devices it will report the role of "standalone device".

## See-thru gateways

> See-thru gateways MUST report their capabilities and the capabilities of each device they connect to the WFM. This is done by calling the `device capabilities` endpoint for the gateway itself and for each device. The `deviceId` in the endpoint is used to indicate the hierarchy of devices, with a parent/child relationship. For example, if a see-thru gateway with `deviceId` "gateway1" connects two devices with `deviceId` "deviceA" and "deviceB", the gateway would call the `device capabilities` endpoint three times with the following `deviceId`s: "gateway1", "gateway1/deviceA", and "gateway1/deviceB". 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See-thru gateways MUST report their capabilities and the capabilities of each device they connect to the WFM. This is done by calling the `device capabilities` endpoint for the gateway itself and for each device behind the gateway. The `deviceId` in the endpoint is used to indicate the hierarchy of devices, with a parent/child relationship. For example, if a see-thru gateway with `deviceId` "gateway1" connects two devices with `deviceId` "deviceA" and "deviceB", the gateway would call the `device capabilities` endpoint three times with the following `deviceId`s: "gateway1", "gateway1/deviceA", and "gateway1/deviceB". 
```

When reporting its own capabilities, a see-thru gateway MUST report the role "Gateway". 

> If a see-thru gateway is capable of hosting edge applications it MUST report the corresponding role(s) (i.e., "Standalone Device", "Standalone Cluster, and/or "Cluster Leader") and the resources available for these deployments.

Reviewer 2: The PR carries forward the SUP's distinction between "opaque gateway" and "see-thru gateway" into the MUST rules. Reading through, I think only see-thru really needs to live there - and even then, mostly as a name for an underlying mechanism.

From the WFM's side, an opaque gateway looks identical to a regular device: no `Gateway` role, no hierarchical `deviceId`, no special error codes, ... The "Opaque gateways MUST report the combined capabilities..." boils down to "report what you can actually offer", which any device does anyway. And since the WFM can't tell an opaque gateway from a regular device, there's no way the spec could enforce that rule even if it wanted to. It's good guidance for someone building an aggregation device, but it doesn't really have a job in the MUST rules. (Side note: the example uses `Standalone Device`, but the rules don't seem to stop an opaque gateway from reporting `Gateway` instead - so even the boundary of the category isn't clear to me from the text.)

See-thru is different. It does point at something real. But that "something real" is the combination of mechanisms already in this PR: the `Gateway` role plus hierarchical `deviceId`. The name is a convenient handle for that combination, but it's the mechanisms themselves doing the work.

What I'd suggest:
- Drop opaque from the MUST rules, maybe just provide an informative note such as: "A device may aggregate several sub-devices behind it and report itself as a single Margo device."
- Rewrite the see-thru MUSTs to point at the mechanism directly: "A WFM client reporting the `Gateway` role MUST..." You could keep "see-thru gateway" as an informal name in the spec (as a useful shorthand) but don't pin protocol rules to that term.

Reviewer 3: I think the key is addressability. In the case of single node, cluster, and opaque I am addressing the target directly. In the case of transparent I am targeting the leaf device via the gateway. That means I have to consider the leaf device the same way I would any other target, but then have to add in the targeting parameters associated with the gateway it must communicate through. 

i.e., I can target a leaf device of a gateway just like any other device but what happens if the gateway does not support the particular constructs that must flow through to it for "starting the camera". If we assume it is "just flow through" it would devalue the gateway and become not much more than a proxy server that security teams may not be happy with.

Author: @matlec 
Regarding your first suggestion: I have dropped the requirement (it was not a requirement in the SUP) and rephrase a bit based on your proposal.
Regarding your second suggestion: it makes sense and I tried to rewrite the requirements accordingly.

@chrisgclayton the original intent for the gateway concept was to allow connecting non-margo devices to the Margo ecosystem. How the gateway communicates with its child-devices is on purpose outside of the scope of the specification.
